README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/dataset-examples.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/dataset-examples)

Yelp's Academic Dataset Examples
================================

We're providing three examples for use with the datasets available at [http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge](http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge) and 
[http://www.yelp.com/academic_dataset](http://www.yelp.com/academic_dataset). They all depend on
[mrjob](https://github.com/Yelp/mrjob) and python 2.6 or later.

To install all dependencies: `$ pip install -e .`

To test: `$ testify -v test`

Samples
------------

`category_predictor`: Given some text, predict likely categories. For example:

```bash
$ python category_predictor/category_predictor.py yelp_academic_dataset.json > category_predictor.json
$ python category_predictor/predict.py category_predictor.json "bacon donut"
Category: "Food" - 82.66% chance
Category: "Restaurants" - 16.99% chance
Category: "Donuts" - 0.12% chance
Category: "Basque" - 0.02% chance
Category: "Spanish" - 0.02% chance
```

`review_autopilot`: Use a markov chain to finish a review. For
example:

```bash
$ python review_autopilot/generate.py Food 'They have the best'
They have the best coffee is good food was delicious cookies and
a few friends i think they make this
```

`positive_category_words`: See the Yelp engineering blog for
details about this example. In short, it generates positivity
scores for words either globally or per-category.

Basic set-up
------------

You can use any of mjrob's runner with these examples, but we'll focus
on the local and emr runner (if you have access to your own hadoop
cluster, check out the mrjob docs for instructions on how to set this
up).

Local mode couldn't be easier:

    # this step will take a VERY long time
    python review_autopilot/autopilot.py yelp_academic_dataset.json > autopilot.json

    # this should be instant
	python review_autopilot/generate.py Food 'They have the best'
	> hot dogs ever

Waiting a long time is kind of lame, no? Let's try the same thing
using EMR.

First off, you'll need an `aws_access_key` and an
`aws_secret_access_key`. You can get these from the AWS console
(you'll need to sign up for an AWS developer account and enable s3 /
emr usage, if you haven't already).

Create a simple mrjob.conf file, like this:

    runners:
      emr:
        aws_access_key_id: YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
        aws_secret_access_key: YOUR_SECRET_KEY

Now that that's done, you can run the autopilot script on EMR.

    # WARNING: this will cost you roughly $2 and take 10-20 minutes
	python review_autopilot/autopilot.py --num-ec2-instances 10 --ec2-instance-type c1.medium -v --runner emr yelp_academic_dataset.json


You can save money (and time) by re-using jobflows and uploading the
dataset to a person, private s3 bucket - check out the mrjob docs for
instructions on doing this.

Commit message:

Added json to csv converter.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/dataset-examples.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/Yelp/dataset-examples)

Yelp's Academic Dataset Examples
================================

We're providing three examples for use with the datasets available at [http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge](http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge) and 
[http://www.yelp.com/academic_dataset](http://www.yelp.com/academic_dataset). They all depend on
[mrjob](https://github.com/Yelp/mrjob) and python 2.6 or later.

To install all dependencies: `$ pip install -e .`

To test: `$ tox`

Samples
------------

`json_to_csv_converter`: Convert the dataset from json format to csv format.

```bash
$ python json_to_csv_converter.py yelp_academic_dataset.json # Creates yelp_academic_dataset.csv
```

`category_predictor`: Given some text, predict likely categories. For example:

```bash
$ python category_predictor/category_predictor.py yelp_academic_dataset.json > category_predictor.json
$ python category_predictor/predict.py category_predictor.json "bacon donut"
Category: "Food" - 82.66% chance
Category: "Restaurants" - 16.99% chance
Category: "Donuts" - 0.12% chance
Category: "Basque" - 0.02% chance
Category: "Spanish" - 0.02% chance
```

`review_autopilot`: Use a markov chain to finish a review. For
example:

```bash
$ python review_autopilot/generate.py Food 'They have the best'
They have the best coffee is good food was delicious cookies and
a few friends i think they make this
```

`positive_category_words`: See the Yelp engineering blog for
details about this example. In short, it generates positivity
scores for words either globally or per-category.

Basic set-up
------------

You can use any of mjrob's runner with these examples, but we'll focus
on the local and emr runner (if you have access to your own hadoop
cluster, check out the mrjob docs for instructions on how to set this
up).

Local mode couldn't be easier:

    # this step will take a VERY long time
    python review_autopilot/autopilot.py yelp_academic_dataset.json > autopilot.json

    # this should be instant
	python review_autopilot/generate.py Food 'They have the best'
	> hot dogs ever

Waiting a long time is kind of lame, no? Let's try the same thing
using EMR.

First off, you'll need an `aws_access_key` and an
`aws_secret_access_key`. You can get these from the AWS console
(you'll need to sign up for an AWS developer account and enable s3 /
emr usage, if you haven't already).

Create a simple mrjob.conf file, like this:

    runners:
      emr:
        aws_access_key_id: YOUR_ACCESS_KEY
        aws_secret_access_key: YOUR_SECRET_KEY

Now that that's done, you can run the autopilot script on EMR.

    # WARNING: this will cost you roughly $2 and take 10-20 minutes
	python review_autopilot/autopilot.py --num-ec2-instances 10 --ec2-instance-type c1.medium -v --runner emr yelp_academic_dataset.json


You can save money (and time) by re-using jobflows and uploading the
dataset to a person, private s3 bucket - check out the mrjob docs for
instructions on doing this.
